Aneesh Bathey
aneesh_bathey@student.uml.edu
GUI Programming I
June 25, 2025

This assignment was to create a part of a Scrabble game. At start, the website generates 7 random tiles that the user can drag and drop onto a Scrabble board row. The tiles are randomly generated based on the data structure in "script.js" which contains information such as each tile's distribution, value, number remaining, and image source. The tiles on the tile holder can be dragged onto the board row, and the tile will snap to the square nearest to the user's mouse when dragged onto the board row. If it is not dragged to the board row, it will go back to the tile holder. Once a tile is dragged to the board, it cannot be dragged back. I used the offset property along with math functions to calculate where to put the tile on the board, and kept track of each tile on the board and their position. I used a string array to represent this, where "" would be an empty tile on the board row and if a tile was placed, it would change to a letter like "A" in the index of the square the tile was placed. For indexes 1 and 5 (positions 2 and 6 on the board), I would double the score since those squares were worth double points. The word and score are updated when the user forms a word found in the dictionary array in "script.js". The dictionary only has 100 words in this program, but in a real world setting I would include a larger list of words. The user can press "Next word" to move onto the word where 7 new tiles will be generated, but the score will be kept as is. The user can also restart the game by pressing "Start over" which will set the score back to 0 and reset the amount of each tiles remaining.
